west germany who's next ? crusty old chancellor konrad
adenauer was laying about him with splendid gusto last week,
wisecracking about american politics ( " say, what ever happened to
lyndon johnson .q? " ; , needling the british (he says they
deliberately spread misconceptions), even taking a backhanded dig at
his pal in paris, charles de gaulle . " stupidity " was the cause of
western europe's current disunity, adenauer told a dinner meeting of
the foreign press in bonn . whose stupidity ? " i believe these
things have been committed not only by britain but by others as well, "
he sighed . was any of it committed on the river seine ? asked a
reporter . " i deliberately have not mentioned any names, " retorted
der alte . " whoever fits the coat should wear it . " adenauer's free
and easy remarks were merely signs of the relaxed and reflective mood
that has come over the 87-year-old chancellor now that he has finally
made up his mind to give up west germany's top job . last week he
offered no objections when a caucus meeting of his christian democrats
authorized c.d.u . bundestag leader heinrich von brentano to canvass
all the factions and suggest a candidate to take over next fall and
lead the party in the 1965 elections . the heir-apparent is still
avuncular economics minister ludwig erhard, architect of the west
german economic boom, and the most popular choice among west german
voters . one cabinet minister guesses that erhard also commands the
loyalty of 60 per cent of c.d.u . politicians . but erhard still has
one formidable enemy der alte himself who has conducted a petulant feud
with paunchy " uncle ludwig . " adenauer's influence is still great,
and last week the field was still wide open with half a dozen other
candidates, led by foreign minister gerhard schroder, to be considered
. who would der alte prefer ? " i don't want to psych anyone into
misery, " he grinned impishly to foreign correspondents . " do you
think this job is a pleasure ? /
