yugoslavia return of the baker through all the years of marshal
tito's communist rule, a special niche has been provided for the small
private businessman who was somehow able to supply products and
services the state-controlled organization could not match . but a year
or so ago, the profits of the barbers, blacksmiths, pastrymakers,
cobblers and tailors began to get out of hand ; they bought cars and
rented summer homes on fashionable lakesides . last may tito's regime
decided to wipe them out . taxes on private business were raised
sevenfold . a private tailor with one helper paid the same amount of
tax as a belgrade tailors' communist cooperative with seven employees .
it was too much for any artisan . by the end of 1962, nearly 10,000
private craftsmen closed up shop, 3,000 in croatia alone . the
theoreticians were happy at the turn of events, but many other
yugoslavs were not . they found it virtually impossible in some areas
to obtain the services of a plumber or electrician . to get a pair of
shoes repaired today takes a month . belgrade's famed candy and pastry
shops are nearly all closed, and the state-baked pita a serbian pastry
filled with fruit is no edible substitute . the grumbling got so loud
that even president tito admitted in a speech that " a real witch hunt
was started against the alleged enrichment of artisans, and excessively
high taxes were levied against them . " he suggested the matter be
attended to . last week the yugoslav parliament was preparing to pass a
new tax law that " will not discourage the development of crafts . "
the party's official mouthpiece, belgrade's daily borba, offered a
distinctly non-marxian rationale for the retreat : " the law treats
private craftsmen as an additional but significant economic branch
which fits well in the system of socialist economy . /
