south viet nam death of the missionaries it began like a trip to a
church picnic . crammed into the land-rover bouncing over south viet
nam's heavily traveled route 20 were american missionary elwood
jacobsen, 35, and filipino missionary gaspar makil, 36, with their
wives and five children . after months of ministering to primitive
vietnamese natives, the two missionaries and their families were headed
for the makil home near the mountain resort of dalat . but 50 miles
northeast of saigon their car ran into a string of autos stalled in the
center of the road . around them swarmed some 20 grim-faced vietnamese
wearing rubber sandals, tree branches thrust into their belts for
camouflage, and light field packs over their black peasant garb . " we
were ordered out of the car, " said mrs . jacobsen, " but we weren't
frightened . we thought we would be on our way in a few minutes . "
this was not to be, for the hapless missionary families were caught in
a roadblock of the communist viet cong . without warning the reds
opened up on the two unarmed families in a withering blast of carbine
and submachine-gun fire . three-year-old thomas makil fell with a
bullet in his leg, and slugs ripped through his four-month-old sister
janie's body into her father, killing them both . elwood jacobsen
jerked backward and fell dead into the road . " i started hollering "
elwood, elwood,' " said mrs . jacobsen, " but i got no answer . " in a
flash, the reds disappeared into the jungle ; moments later, a
truckload of government troops lumbered into sight down the road . for
the latest victims in the ugly war of south viet nam, rescue had been
just minutes away .
