sweden caught in a drought when 40 years of liquor rationing
ended in 1955, most swedes laid in ample reserve stocks, vowing never
to be caught short again . but there they were, with cupboards bare
last week, amidst the direst shortage since the height of government
controls . trouble for the hard-drinking swedes began when foremen of
the state wine and liquor monopoly distilleries went out on strike four
weeks ago . the government declined their demands for longer vacations
. as a result, the distilleries closed up tight, and the country began
to dry up fast . last week wines, whiskies and liqueurs were all but
gone, and, even worse, the shops were running out of akvavit, sweden's
favorite drink . as alarmed swedes lined up at staterun package stores
to buy what they could, the government restricted akvavit sales to a
bottle per customer . and word went out that unless something is done
this week, fully a third of all sweden's liquor stores will be out of
akvavit altogether . bootleggers turned up furtively with the popular
brannvin akvavit, asking $20 for the bottle which normally sells for $5
. " a disaster, " muttered one swede, waiting his turn in a stockholm
queue . in the south, some desperate swedes were even hopping ferries
across to denmark to seek relief at copenhagen bars .
restricting most men to three quarts per month, austere by swedish
standards .
