south korea squeeze in seoul in south korea last week, a farmer
named song kyu il traveled all the way from the southern provinces to
parade before seoul's duk soo palace with a placard scrawled in his own
blood : general park, please do something to settle the crisis .
farmer song was thrown in jail, along with some 200 other demonstrators
who openly protested south korean strongman general park chung hee's
broken promise to call general elections in may and hand over power to
the civilians . the wholesale arrests only served to attract more
attention to the noisy campaign of former president yun po sun, 65, and
new rule party leader huh chung, 67, who touched off the uproar with a
series of antigovernment meetings . junta leaders were reluctant to
arrest yun and huh for fear they would become political martyrs . but
the men around park did not hesitate to reject the opposition demands .
defense minister kim sung un summoned 160 top military men to seoul for
a strategy meeting, later took to a nationwide radio hookup to speak
for them : " we strongly support the present government . there are
seeds of uneasiness in the country, and this is not the time to
transfer the government to civilians . " then, to make the point more
emphatically, all 160 officers rode grandly through the streets of
seoul in a convoy of military jeeps . it was general park himself who
felt the squeeze, for he was less interested than the rest of his junta
in retaining power in the hands of the army . but he could not bow to
the clamoring civilians, or even to the pressure applied from
washington by u.s . ambassador samuel berger last week . for if he
reversed himself yet another time to support the civilians, a military
coup might well topple him overnight .
