russia the reasons why ismail y. yusupov, 48, knew that he had
a tough row to hoe when he was named communist party boss in the
problem-plagued virgin lands of kazahkstan (time, jan . 4) . but he
could hardly have guessed the extent of the mess he would inherit from
his purged predecessor . last week yusupov published a report charging
that more than $600 million had been wasted during the last three years
on illconceived projects ; no fewer than 16,139 regional officials
were fired last year alone, 2,340 of them for stealing and embezzling
$1,270,000 . a gang of crooks led by the chief of the tselinograd trade
board faked reports, rigged phony prices, and sold meat, butter and
automobiles on the black market ; in pavlodar, three men managed to
make off with no fewer than 300,000 bottles of wine and vodka . the
entire party and government leadership of the kzyl orda region
masterminded a ring of cattle rustlers ; the local communist chief
organized blackjack games and set off an " epidemic of gambling . "
since yusupov's own head was now on the block, there was almost a
plaintive note in his concluding question : " can one be expected to
achieve good farming results under such conditions ? " he had a ready
answer : " of course not, " for this kind of thing explained why
kazahkstan last year delivered 8.2 million tons of grain to the state
instead of the planned 14.1 million tons .
