from the second city most russian intellectuals listened in
tight-lipped silence as word of nikita khrushchev's latest cultural
crackdown (time, march 22) filtered out to the provinces . not so the
writers and artists of leningrad, russia's second city . when the local
commissars met to give them the word, the intellectuals talked right
back . the leningrad edition of pravda reported acidly last week that
the curator of the west european art history section of leningrad's
famed hermitage museum rose to defend " formalistic distortions and
asserted that " this is buoyant, creative art . " ' what's more, the
prominent director of the comedy theater, nikolai p . akimov, "
furiously defended the right to unlimited experimentation with form . "
painter leonid a . tkachenko not only backed up colleagues who were
under attack, but " did not give a correct evaluation of criticism
directed at himself . " that wasn't all . " things even came to such a
pass, " said the newspaper, " that some began to feel " shy' about
speaking on socialist realism . " shyest of all intellectuals in the
soviet union was poet evgeny evtushenko, usually the most outspoken of
the lot . evtushenko had been singled out by khrushchev for a scathing
attack because of the poet's popularity in the west . after the
premier's blast, he went into seclusion with his wife in a dacha south
of moscow, and last week let word circulate that he had indefinitely "
postponed " long scheduled trips to italy and the u.s .
along with veteran novelist-propagandist
ehrenburg, whose controversial memoirs were being serialized in the
literary journal novy mir . last week it was reported that the next
issue would not carry the usual installment and that novy mir editor
aleksandr t . tvardovsky had been fired .
