france finis for s.a.o . ? as swissair flight 227 to zurich
taxied onto the runway at munich last week, it was followed closely by
a black police limousine . not until the red-and-silver convair
disappeared into the night did the plainclothesman inside the car
return to headquarters to report that georges bidault, 63, former
premier of france and now self-styled operational chief of the
terrorist secret army organization, had left west germany . for the
first time since bidault was traced to his hideaway in a rural villa
last month, bavaria's minister of interior heinrich junker breathed
easily . sighed he : " a heavy cross is off my back . " bidault did
not leave munich without a vow to " continue my fight against de gaulle
until freedom has been restored in my country . " landing in portugal
under an assumed name, he was given even less chance to plot against de
gaulle's life than he enjoyed in easygoing bavaria ; almost as soon as
he turned up at a lisbon rooming house, security cops hauled him off to
a suburban lisbon villa . he was expected to seek refuge in south
america . drifting aimlessly like a man without a country, bidault
today is a pathetic fugitive who drinks too much and talks too much to
be an effective opponent of the regime . and french officials insist
that the s.a.o . movement, whose murderous followers once struck terror
into the hearts of frenchmen, has fallen apart since france's truce
with algeria in march 1962 . plagued by apathy and hounded by the
61,000-man police force of interior minister roger frey, the s.a.o . is
no longer able to maintain commando units in each of france's nine
military districts, as it once did . today, top officials claim, there
are probably no more than 30 hardcore activists left in the country .
while hundreds of fanatic anti-gaullists have found refuge in
neighboring countries (500 in spain alone), they too are now almost all
under close police surveillance .
