laos after the party returning home early from a party
at the king's residence in vientiane, foreign minister quinim pholsena,
47, and his wife drew up before their newly renovated villa . on guard
was a protective screen of soldiers from the neutralist army of premier
prince souvanna phouma . as quinim mounted the steps, one of the
soldiers stepped forward and fired a blast from his submachine gun that
killed quinim and seriously wounded his wife . when word of the murder
reached the king's residence on the banks of the mekong, it failed to
dampen the merrymaking . the band played on, the ministers and their
ladies continued to sip champagne . shrugged one guest : " no one had
it more coming to him and from more quarters than did quinim pholsena .
/ hard-working, dedicated and devious, quinim lacked the customary
laotian charm and grew up consumed by bitterness and envy . unlike most
other laotian politicians, he did not belong to a rich or princely
family . he made a lot of money as a merchant and investor, but in
politics he was always a man of the left ; though officially a member
of souvanna phouma's neutralist party, his line was usually
indistinguishable from that of the communist pathet lao . quinim was
widely blamed for splitting the neutralist ranks and for fostering the
resentments and dissensions that led to the february assassination of a
neutralist colonel in the plaine des jarres . in his signed confession,
quinim's assassin, a lance corporal named chy kong, charged quinim with
trying to overthrow the government and bribing neutralist officers to
defect to the pathet lao forces encamped in the plaine des jarres,
where at week's end fighting broke out that caused 20 casualties .
asked if he agreed that quinim had been pro-communist, premier souvanna
phouma replied simply : " he is dead . peace to his soul . /
