yugoslavia how to win job security like many durable dictators,
yugoslavia's marshal tito preserves his one-man rule by the simple
expedient of holding down the key jobs himself . he is
secretary-general of the communist party, supreme commander of the
armed forces, and chief of state . as if that were not enough,
belgrade's complaisant federal people's republic unanimously approved a
new national constitution last week giving tito the presidency for
life. while his handsome wife jovanka beamed down from a visitors'
box, tito strode into the hall to the cheers of the crowd and sat
gravely through a formal reading of the new charter . afterward,
looking remarkably fit for a man who will be 71 next month, he happily
autographed copies of the constitution . in addition to sanctifying
tito's supremacy, the document included other novelties . a new
assembly will be composed of no fewer than five chambers, each with its
own specialty . one will deal with economics, others with education,
social, general administrative, and federal matters . for the first
time, there will be a premier and a vice president, although neither
one is designated to succeed tito in the event of his sudden death .
their powers will be strictly limited . under the new constitution, the
communist party remains the " fundamental initiator of political
activity . " spain's
francisco franco is the only other dictator with legal life tenure as
chief of state . ghana's strongman president, kwame nkrumah, was voted
permanently into office in september, but his high dedication modestly
vetoed the gesture, preferring to rely on elections a safe enough
gesture since the country is officially a one-party state .
