russia the gold rush the soviet union boasts some of the tightest
border controls in the world, but they are not tight enough to hold
back a thriving network of russian dealers in contraband currency that
stretches from peking to paris and points beyond . last week a
kazakhstan factory owner went on trial in alma ata after he was nabbed
wearing a money belt crammed not only with rubles but also with french
francs and u.s . dollars . in his home were three ounces of pearls,
2,700 antelope horns, which the chinese prize for their supposed
medicinal qualities, and 22 lbs . of gold, which he planned to export
to accomplices in communist china . using a mine detector, cops found
another cache of gold buried in the gutter in front of the smuggler's
house . last month another ring of prospering foreign traders was
broken up in the moslem soviet republic of uzbekistan . alas, a
railroad policeman was standing on the platform of tashkent's station
when coins clinked at the feet of an elderly beggar . stooping to
investigate, the cop discovered that the coins were solid gold and bore
the face of czar nicholas ii . the game was up . sewn into the beggar's
rags were hundreds of coins, pearls and precious stones . the trail led
to four other gang members, whose illicit inventory included 400 lbs .
of precious aniline dyes, 220 yards of satin, $200 in british pounds,
and hundreds of thousands of rubles in state loan certificates, rubies,
coins and medals . a crook named " blue eyes " was all set to haul the
swag out by car to afghanistan . the gang had hoped to use the profits
to finance a pilgrimage to mecca . instead, they all landed in a
tashkent jail, sentenced to terms of 10 to 15 years .
