red china the chilly season red china's masses last week had
much in common with the subjects of the famous fairy-tale emperor :
everybody was talking about new clothes, but nobody could actually see
them . after three years of bad cotton crops, the annual cloth ration
has shrunk to as little as 2f ft . per person in some regions " just
enough, " said one refugee, " to patch our rags . " so severe is the
shortage, according to the official peking people's daily, that "
clothes hospitals " are making " short-sleeved shirts out of
long-sleeved shirts, a vest out of a short-sleeved shirt, and underwear
out of a vest . " in timeworn style, communist party chairman mao
tse-tung's lieutenants blame drought, hailstorms and insect blights for
cutting the ration from a manageable 20.65 ft . in 1957 to its present
handkerchief size . but red china's frayed look also owes much to a
deliberate decision by its leaders . " when the bad crops began in
1959, " explains one western expert in hong kong, " cotton and cloth
was one place where you could squeeze the people . " peking squeezed
hard, cutting back cotton acreage at least 20 per cent so that every
spare clod of earth could be sown to grains . the result : china's
1962 grain harvest was up 10 per cent to 182 million metric tons, while
the cotton crop may have fallen to as low as 1,200,000 metric tons,
down one-third from 1958 . further aggravating the situation at home,
peking sold huge amounts of cotton abroad to bring in badly needed
foreign exchange . with the onset of the chilly season, even the cloth
wrapping on gift parcels from relatives abroad is used to patch
threadbare garments . said one refugee in hong kong : " we are used to
getting cold in the winter .
