formosa invasions, ltd . on the rocky island of tungyin, 50
miles off the coast of red china, is the headquarters of a little-known
military unit called the anti-communist national salvation army . the
secret army, 30,000 strong, is chiang kai-shek's instrument for the
long-promised return to the mainland . the troops are trained as
guerrillas, armed with u.s . weapons, and come largely from the
mainland coastal provinces . but where the troops go or what they do is
a tight secret . that secrecy made a news item from red china all the
more interesting last week . radio peking trumpeted an announcement
that communist security forces had " wiped out " 172 commandos who had
secretly landed in coastal kwangtung province last fall . the
communists claimed that the interlopers planned to set up a " guerrilla
corridor " in kwangtung " to open the way for a subsequent military
adventure of invading the mainland . " to back up the story, communist
newspapers splashed front-page pictures of the captured agents and
their stockpiles of u.s . rifles, grenades, and plastic demolition
equipment . the story might have been brushed aside as another
propaganda tidbit, but the official nationalist central news agency
quickly verified it . what's more, claimed taipei, the guerrillas tied
up 100,000 communist troops for three months, inflicted 700
casualties, shot down a red reconnaissance plane, and engaged in a
widespread campaign of sabotage .
