europe a jolly nice chap at first meeting, few would have
guessed that giuseppe martelli's line of work was tracing the
trajectories of strongly accelerated nuclear particles . taller (6 ft .
1 in.) and handsomer than most of his scientific colleagues, martelli,
39, spoke fluent russian and english, and could even make a certain
amount of small talk . son of a world war i italian general, he had
studied at the university of rome and pisa's institute of physics,
where he specialized in cosmic ray research . later, he was hired by
euratom, europe's communal atoms-for-peace agency, and went off to
brussels, leaving his wife maria and their two children behind in pisa
. an expert on thermonuclear power and a jolly nice chap, martelli came
to the attention of a british physicist, through him won a place on the
600-man team working on long-term fusion research at culham laboratory
in the cotswolds . there, in room 103, giuseppe spent his days in pure
research, the kind of science that is not expected to yield concrete
results until the 1980s ; like all euratom projects, it involved no
classified information . after a few weeks in england, giuseppe set up
house among a group of scientists in nearby abingdon . returning to
london last week from one of his frequent trips to brussels, giuseppe
enrico gilberto martelli was grabbed at the airport by scotland yard's
special branch and formally accused of violating britain's official
secrets act . the wording of the charge suggested that he was accused
only of preparing to transmit secret information to " an enemy . "
britons wondered if they were in for yet another installment in the
series of espionage scandals that have been making headlines for nearly
20 years .
