red china the great leap overboard in 1958, when communist
china built its biggest freighter, the 11,182-ton ship was christened
naturally yueh chin, or the s.s . leap forward . with almost as much
fanfare as when she was launched, the leap forward sailed from tsingtao
last week with the first cargo shipped from china to japan since the
two countries signed a recent trade agreement ending their five-year
official boycott of each other's goods . then, half way across the east
china sea one afternoon last week, the leap forward suddenly radioed
for help . four hours later, the pride of china's merchant fleet lay on
the ocean floor . the chinese crew, who took to the lifeboats and were
rescued by japanese fishermen, excitedly insisted in sign language that
their ship had been pursued by a submarine and hit by three torpedoes .
but to japanese naval authorities their story seemed as full of holes
as the leap forward herself . if the ship had really been torpedoed,
they pointed out, its 59-man crew could hardly have escaped without the
loss of a single life . besides, who would want to sink an unarmed
merchantman ? the u.s . announced that it, for one, had no subs in
the area . a more logical explanation lay in jagged scott rock, an
ill-defined group of reefs barely beneath the surface 120 miles
southwest of korea . the head of japan's maritime safety board was sure
the leap forward had gone aground . " an error of navigation, " he
shrugged . even radio peking seemed unable to swallow the idea of
hostile attack, announcing only that the government was " attaching
great importance " to the sinking . the tone of the broadcast suggested
that whatever face the skipper had saved in japan with his torpedo tale
would be quickly dissipated once he came back to face the music in
tsingtao .
