togo arranging things four months after the assassination of
president sylvanus olympio by a disgruntled army sergeant, the togolese
electorate went dutifully to the polls this week to choose a new
government . there was little suspense about the outcome . the voters,
handed a single list, couly only rubber-stamp the military-backed
regime that has succeeded olympio in the tiny west african republic .
slated for a continued five-year term as president is nicolas
grunitzky, 50, the mulatto son of a prussian doctor and togolese mother
who headed a pro-french puppet regime before olympio gained
independence from paris in 1960, and who was called upon to take over
as provisional president last january . ticketed to stay on as vice
president was antoine meatchi, 37, a tall, ambitious northern tribesman
. to keep the various party factions happy, the election organizers
agreed in advance on the makeup of a 56-member national assembly,
divided among virtually all political parties, including olympio's
comite d'union unite togolaise and its onetime youth wing, juvento, so
that none has a majority . backing up the whole package is togo's
french-trained army, whose discontent over low pay and manpower led to
olympio's overthrow . its ranks have since been doubled to 550 men .
perhaps the
world's grandest party label, juvento takes its name from the first
letters of the french words : justice, union, vigilance, egalite,
nationalisme, tenacite and optimisme .
