france an island fling france's premier michel debre last
week rushed from humiliating obscurity back to the very center of
french political life . eased out of office by president charles de
gaulle in 1962 and replaced by georges pompidou, debre had seemed
permanently relegated to the shadows last november when he ran as a
candidate for the national assembly in a supposedly safe constituency
and, despite a gaullist landslide, was solidly beaten by a local garage
owner . but debre was determined to try again, even though he had to
travel 6,000 miles to french-owned reunion island, a tiny volcanic rock
in the indian ocean, where a by-election offered another opportunity to
run for the assembly . the dour, fussy debre took no chances . he flew
to the capital city of st.-denis and campaigned vigorously, holding 70
meetings in three steaming, sweaty weeks . as was confidently
predicted, debre swamped his luckless opponent 30,908 to 7,365, partly
through the reunion tactic known as the " promenade, " in which
opposition voters are sent fruitlessly from polling place to polling
place, being told at each that they are not registered there . de
gaulle now views debre with a more kindly eye than he did during his
premiership a year ago ; according to waggish paris comment, pompidou
was like a mistress whom de gaulle saw with pleasure, but who lost many
of his charms when he became la legitime, that is, wife . if de gaulle
gives the expected nod, michel debre will take over the job of
president of the gaullist u.n.r . faction in the assembly and employ
his undeniable talents in dealing with the ineffective leadership, poor
organization and internal friction that have recently plagued the party
