west germany feather for ludwig's cap west germany's next
chancellor, economics minister ludwig erhard, passed his first test for
the big job last week . a week-long labor stoppage among 400,000
metalworkers in baden-wurttemberg was threatening to spread to the
industrial heartland of the ruhr . already $100 million had been lost
in idle factories . it was up to " uncle ludwig " to act and fast . he
did . summoning both sides to a wood-paneled conference room of the
economics ministry, erhard sat them down face to face, providing two
antechambers for both groups to use for their own discussions . then
the doors were shut and plentiful supplies of cigars, beer and schnapps
were brought in to loosen up the bargainers . erhard shuttled from room
to room, chiding, encouraging, cajoling each group as the struggle
continued to find a common ground . then in the early morning hours he
came up with a solution that just about split the difference between
union demands and management's offer . it was the propitious moment,
for each side now was groggy with fatigue or beer and before long each
side accepted the compromise a 7 per cent wage hike spread over 18
months (current average hourly wage : about 77 #$ ) . the feather was
in ludwig's cap, and he knew it . " it was a restless night, " he
beamed to cheering christian democratic union deputies next day . " you
know that i put all my prestige on the scale . " the c.d.u . lost no
time putting their hero's new prestige to use . worried over a string
of c.d.u . defeats in state elections, the party hustled erhard off to
start work in the campaign for next week's election in lower saxony .
