great britain yer pays yer money, yer tykes yer choice
psephology, as guessing elections is called in britain, is about as
inexact an art as playing the football pools . faced with a general
election this year or next, the experts last week studied a rich crop
of auguries with unusual diligence and the usual results : they
disagreed . certainly, there was little to encourage prime minister
harold macmillan's conservatives in the outcome of 401 local borough
elections . with 2,973 seats at stake, the tories lost a total of 550
; the labor party gained 544, winning control of local governments in
such major cities as leicester, liverpool, bradford, bristol and
nottingham . labor officials claimed that if a general election were
held tomorrow, they would return to power with a margin of 90 to 130
seats . also last week, however, three separate opinion polls indicated
that labor's lead has shortened dramatically in the past month . a
daily mail survey estimated that tory support has increased a startling
7 per cent since april . the daily telegraph gallup poll reported a 2.5
per cent gain for the conservatives, whose support is now estimated at
36.5 per cent, to labor's 46.5 per cent the clues were not quite as
contradictory as they seemed . council elections in britain generally
mirror local economic conditions . while tory candidates were hurt by
high unemployment levels in many big cities, they also took a beating
in many prosperous suburban communities where householders were still
cross with the government for recently increasing their local taxes
(from 50 per cent to 300 per cent ) . national opinion polls, which in
the past have proved fairly accurate, apparently reflected britons'
satisfaction with a new head of steam that has begun to appear in the
economy . torn between contradictory portents, psephologists and
politicians were about equally divided on whether the general election
will be held this fall or next year .
