senegal briefly sympathetic one might say that things were rigged
in advance when ex-premier mamadou dia went on trial last week for
attempting to seize power in december . after all, six of the seven "
judges " were members of the national assembly that dia had tried to
dissolve by force during the abortive coup . they just might be a
little
prejudiced . but when the proceedings began, the court was careful to
observe all the flowery decorum of gallic justice . the presiding judge
was resplendent in erminetrimmed long red robes, and sat listening with
calm dignity . moreover, dia was not even charged with " plotting, "
only with the more vague " acting against the internal security of the
state . " taking the floor in his own defense, dia argued that he was
not guilty of the charges . when he sent gendarmes to overthrow
president leopold senghor and arrest pro-senghor deputies, dia said, he
was only trying to head off a plot against himself that stemmed from
his efforts to crack senegal's peanut monopolists . cried dia : " i
wanted a constitutional solution, they (senghor's men) wanted a
political one . " in reply, the prosecutor sounded downright
sympathetic . there were extenuating circumstances, he agreed ; dia
was obviously a misguided patriot who " thought that one could not be a
good senegalese when one was against mamadou dia . " but at week's end
the court gaveled an end to courtliness . after two hours and 15
minutes of deliberation, the justices sentenced dia to the maximum
penalty, life imprisonment .
