czechoslovakia look who's destalinizing communist czechoslovakia,
always a bastion of harsh stalinism while most of eastern europe was
busy destalinizing, is liberalizing a little . the huge statue of the
dead dictator that overlooked prague is now finally demolished ;
writers have begun to talk about " an enlarged horizon of freedom " ;
in prague's lucerna hall dance palace recently, teen-agers rocked the
rafters with the oliver twist and mozart's eine kleine nachtmusik in
twist tempo . last week old stalinist antonin novotny, president and
first secretary of the communist party, bowed to mounting pressure from
younger party leaders for further liberalization, announced the purge
of two oldtime comrades-in-arms . served up as scapegoats were karol
bacilek, 66, first secretary of the slovak wing of the nation's
communist party and former minister of internal security ; and bruno
kohler, 62, a party member since its founding in 1921 and no . 3 man on
the central committee secretariat . announcing their downfall, the
party mouthpiece, rude pravo,deliberately gave no reasons for the
ousters, since a full explanation could set off a chain reaction of
destalinization that might well cost dour, lackluster novotny his job .
bacilek was top cop back in 1952 when rudolf slansky and ten other red
leaders were hanged in the bloodiest of stalin's satellite show trials
; kohler also played a key role in preparing the purge . and
czechoslovaks with good memories would recall the day eleven years ago
when security boss bacilek publicly and effusively thanked all those
who had produced the valuable evidence that helped send slansky and his
comrades to the gallows, " most of all, comrade novotny .
