way down south in wenceslas square it was all rather embarrassing
. just as radio prague was gleefully reporting the battle in
birmingham, race riots exploded in the heart of the communist capital .
it began at midday near the ambassador hotel just off ancient wenceslas
square . two foreign students one from africa and another from the
middle east were out for a stroll when they were attacked by a gang of
300 czechs who pummeled them with fists and bunches of keys while
police stood idly by . that evening another group of young czechs began
swinging at an african walking with his czech wife, then picked a fight
with two more africans who had been arguing with some cubans . this
time police broke up the brawls, but not before a fourth incident
occurred . an african diplomat had parked his car to investigate the
trouble ; he returned to discover that all four of his tires were
slashed . five days later, when radio prague finally got around to
reporting the antiafrican outbursts, the regime glossed over the
incident as the work of drunken hooligans . it was more serious than
that . for months, czechs have complained that subsidies to
underdeveloped countries, including direct outlays to scholarship
students, are responsible for czechoslovakia's worsening living
standard . and the black students in prague sometimes seem to walk away
with the prettiest girls . the arrival of africans has created race
problems in several parts of the communist world . there was trouble in
prague last year . at moscow's patrice lumumba university, 500 african
students are carefully segregated from russians ; three months ago in
sofia, 600 club-wielding bulgarian cops cracked the skulls of african
students who were demonstrating for nothing more than their own campus
organization .
