hong kong 2-12 parched colony buddhist monks and nuns in hong kong last
week chanted prayers to the pulsating tick-tock of sticks beating on
fish-shaped wooden blocks . throngs of chinese paraded through downtown
streets carrying huge paper dragons representing the rain god, and the
blare of drums, gongs and cymbals exhorted the heavens to send rain .
when a brief shower dampened hong kong one afternoon, marking the first
rainfall in six months, men and women clapped their hands and shouted
for joy . hong kong is suffering critically from the longest drought in
years . the vital textile dyeing industry lost an estimated $1,700,000
in the first four months of this year . the only brewery faces
curtailed production, and deliveries of soft drinks have fallen 60 per
cent . the reservoirs are so nearly dry that hong kong authorities last
week imposed a strict new ration on the city : four hours of running
water every other day . in private homes water is used first for
bathing, then for washing clothes, finally for gardens . ordinarily,
hong kong buys 5 billion gallons of water annually from red china's
shumchun reservoir, just across the border . last month the colony
contracted to buy an additional 700 million gallons from the chinese at
a cost of $29,890 . at the reduced rate of daily consumption of 36
million gallons (compared with the normal 60 million gallons per day),
hong kong's reserves will be exhausted in 66 days . hardest hit by the
drought are the farmers of the new territories, who desperately need
spring rains to save their rice and vegetable crops . those farmers who
own wells padlock them at night to foil water thieves . at week's end,
the shortage had grown so serious that ships of the u.s . seventh fleet
were ordered to cease taking on potable water in hong kong " to avoid
further drain on the local water supply . /
