iran no longer for the corrupt " corruption is the lubricant of
the iranian economy, " a diplomat in teheran once observed . depending
on the size of the pishkash (bribe), justice was bought and sold, tax
rights were purchased, government jobs auctioned off, contracts given,
and conscription was waived . sporadic efforts by shah mohammed reza
pahlevi to clean things up usually ended dismally in a disastrous
series of acquittals, and cases dropped for lack of evidence . but ten
months ago, new premier assadollah alam pledged to undertake " an
anticorruption campaign with great diligence and all severity . "
though the cynical snickered, alam got free rein from the shah,
carefully began building airtight cases against suspected grafters
among iran's leading bureaucrats and government leaders . his first
major target was general mohammed ali khazai, the iranian army's chief
of ordnance, who had parlayed his $6,000 salary into three houses in
the suburbs of teheran, four apartment houses in france, five
automobiles, $100,000 in european banks and $200,000 in cash . a
military court convicted khazai of taking a cut out of government
contracts and sentenced him to five years of solitary confinement .
last week alam's anticorruption drive was in full swing . in teheran, a
military tribunal sentenced general abdullah hedayat, iran's first
four-star general and once a close adviser of the shah, to two years in
prison for embezzling money on military housing contracts, brushed
aside his plea for appeal with the brusque explanation that " more
charges are pending " the former boss of the teheran electricity board
was in solitary confinement for five years ; cases were in preparation
against an ex-war minister and twelve other generals for graft . said
one observer : " the shah has got the grafters and speculators on
the run . /
