middle east from god, or nasser it is never fun to break up
a vacation and rush home to deal with some problem at the office . for
egypt's gamal abdel nasser, it was especially provoking, for he was
enjoying some of the world's loveliest scenery at marshal tito's villa
on the yugoslav island of brioni . but the cables from cairo carried
word that nasser's arab unity scheme was in a state of collapse .
reluctantly, egypt's leader boarded a plane and headed across the
mediterranean to deal with his troublemaking partners, the syrians .
behind the crisis was a gamble three weeks ago by syrian nasserites
that by yanking their six ministers from the cabinet they could bring
the government down, touch off street rioting, and snatch control from
the dominant baath party in the resulting confusion . up to a point,
that was exactly what happened . baathist premier salah bitar had to
quit ; his replacement was dr . sami jundi, supposedly a nasser
admirer . but as it turned out, jundi, after three sleepless days and
nights of trying to persuade both sides to cooperate, wearily stepped
aside to let another premier seek a solution . who was the new premier
? none other than bitar, who promptly filled the nasserite cabinet
vacancies with baath supporters and tightened the party's grip over the
army, thus completing a purge that had already sent two planeloads of
officers suspected of egyptian leanings into exile . within hours of
the antinasser stroke in syria, much the same thing happened in iraq .
there two nasserites were dumped from the cabinet and were replaced by
more pliable fellows . cairo was enraged at baath's " trickery,
treachery and terrorism . " thundered egypt's al gumhuria :. "
punishment from god is sure to come . or if not from god, from nasser .
