france monsieur no president charles de gaulle's press
conferences take the form of a ritual ballet . the stage is the
crystal-chandeliered salle des fetes in the elysee palace, and the
corps de ballet is composed of some 700 newsmen crowded rump to rump in
flimsy, gilt-painted chairs . the props are tv cameras, lights, a desk
placed before a raspberry-red curtain . enter le grand charles, moving
his head ponderously as he peers through the haze of tv flares and
flash bulbs . with a wave of the hand and a clearing of the throat, de
gaulle makes some preliminary remarks before the questions begin . as
de gaulle prepared to stage another of his rare press performances this
week, political dopesters were betting he would use the occasion to
give a haughty and ringing non to concessions for britain's entry into
the common market . he might also take the opportunity to repeat in
public what he has already said in private about president john
kennedy's polaris offer last month . after kennedy's nassau proposal,
de gaulle called in his ministers and became " monsieur no " to the
whole idea, reported the weekly paris match last week . de gaulle
declared : " france cannot in the future renounce its effort and
abandon its project merely because washington decides to present some
proposals . . . we cannot accept polaris missiles and, at the same time,
pursue our national effort . therefore we will follow our national
effort . we have the a-bomb . we will have the h-bomb . and,
eventually, we will have three-stage missiles . " de gaulle continued
: " the american interest is not always the french interest .
circumstances change . interests can diverge . this will be more and
more true in the future, which will give europe a greater and greater
weight, and which will therefore contribute to diminishing the relative
weight of the u.s .
