monaco prince valiant peace came last week in the bitter
struggle between the riviera rivals, france and monaco . " there were
concessions on both sides, " insisted a french diplomat . true enough,
but who else these days is wringing concessions from charles de gaulle
.q? not kennedy, macmillan or khrushchev . only stubborn, tenacious
prince rainier . the crisis began last year, when france issued an
ultimatum ordering monaco to align its tax structure with france and
end its status as a haven for freeloading french corporations and
businessmen . the monegasques, enraged at the prospect of losing their
freedom to pay no income tax to anyone, rallied behind their prince .
rainier struck back at de gaulle by issuing a series of three stamps
commemorating louis xi's recognition of monaco's independence in 1512 .
both
sides mobilized their resources . france had nuclear bombs and 600,000
battletested soldiers v . monaco's 80-man palace guard and 170
policemen . france could also cut off monaco's gas, electricity, postal
and telegraph services . but monaco had a sharper weapon : ridicule .
moreover, prince rainer's little principality could halt the " blue
train " as it passed through monte carlo to the italian border, and
could revoke its agreement to collect garbage in the adjacent french
town of beausoleil . there were some tense moments last fall when
french police set up a customs post at monaco's border and began
stopping cars, but cooler heads at last prevailed . throughout the long
winter months, delegates of both states hammered out six separate
treaties covering everything from taxes (no income tax for monegasques
or longtime french residents of the principality) to postal rates .
monaco emerged largely victorious . when the treaty was signed last
week, prince rainier and princess grace ended a tour of the u.s., flew
back home to receive a grateful welcome from their still taxfree
monegasque subjects .
