laos the tortoise & the hare a monsoon downpour rained on the
plain of jars last week and so did a barrage of communist pathet lao
artillery and mortar shells . in an effort to consolidate last month's
ground gains on the plain, the reds began pinpoint artillery attacks on
the last remaining neutralist toe holds on the plateau, as well as on
the headquarters of neutralist army leader general kong le at muong
phan, just west of the plain . typically, the reds blamed the u.s . for
the resumption of hostilities, said that " the americans have given
orders to the reactionaries of kong le to attack our forces . " even as
the troika-like international control commission of india, poland, and
canada, which was set up to police laotian neutrality, tried to restore
the peace, it lost one of its three heads . communist poland recalled
its icc representative to warsaw in the wake of vigorous u.s . protests
that the pole's " obstructionist tactics " and deliberate boycott of
icc field observation work were sabotaging efforts to maintain a
cease-fire between the neutralists and the pathet lao . as the sporadic
artillery duel continued, neutralist premier souvanna phouma
desperately tried to get his pro-communist half-brother, pathet lao
leader prince souphanouvong, to agree to a resumption of truce talks .
but souphanouvong vetoed every location for the peace talks suggested
by souvanna phouma . sighed a neutralist colonel : " the discussions
move like the tortoise and the war can move like the hare . maybe
before the location for the peace talks is decided, the decision for
laos will have been made in battle . /
