the allies a problem of pipe to pump its burgeoning oil and gas
production from new fields in the caucasus and urals, russia has
undertaken a 38,000-mile pipeline network, with two main legs : one
westward from kuibyshev near the urals to power the factories of
russia's european satellites, the other thousands of miles through
siberia and on to the pacific . trouble is, russia cannot produce all
of the big-bore (up to 40 in.) pipe itself ; so it has turned to
capitalist manufacturers, mostly in west germany and italy, for 40 per
cent of the 2,500,000 tons of pipe it needs for the project . arguing
that the pipelines are of vital strategic use to russia, nato's trade
advisory committee last week tried to put an end to the pipe trade .
weeks ago, italy, which had sent russia 180,000 tons of pipe, went
along with nato's new ban, canceled a 60,000-ton shipment . japan
canceled negotiations for 20,000 tons . but a howl went up in west
germany, russia's no . 1 oil-pipe supplier (633,000 tons from 1959
through last october) . just three and a half months ago, three giant
ruhr firms mannesmann, phoenixrheinrohr ag, and hoesch signed a
contract for another 200,000 tons . ruhr steelmen denounced chancellor
konrad adenauer as a nato stooge for trying to enforce the new rules .
taken aback, adenauer's cabinet last week agreed to reconsider, turned
the problem over to a special subcommittee for special study .
