india the critics return when the congress party achieved its
landslide victory in india's latest general election 15 months ago, the
fiercest critics of prime minister jawaharlal nehru and former defense
minister krishna menon were swept out of office . but the government's
clumsy handling of the chinese invasion last october gave new hope to
the shattered non-communist opposition . the hope was well founded . in
the past fortnight, three of nehru's most acid-tongued foes have scored
overwhelming by-election victories over hand-picked congress candidates
for the lok sabha, lower house of parliament . in a once impregnable
congress stronghold in gujarat on india's west coast, minocher rustom
masani, 57, general secretary of the right-wing swatantra party, downed
a congress nominee by an impressive majority of 14,000 votes . to the
north in uttar pradesh, socialist dr . ram manohar lohia, who took his
defeat at the hands of nehru himself in last year's election, trounced
a former government information minister . worst slap of all came in
another uttar pradesh constituency, where victory came to lean, acerbic
independent j . b . kripalani, 76, the veteran congress politician who
had left the party to become nehru's bitter foe in 1951 . swamped by
menon last year, kripalani this time rolled over nehru's irrigation and
power minister hafiz mohammed ibrahim with little difficulty . the
defeat was doubly galling for nehru, for ibrahim's campaign was
masterminded by none other than his discredited old crony, menon
himself . though the election results left the congress still with a
solid majority of 369 of the lok sabha's 509 seats, nehru was plainly
concerned . the congress ordered a complete party investigation into
why its candidates had fared so badly at the polls .
