morocco discarding the eggshells a young monarch in a shaky new
country can do worse than choose charles de gaulle as a model to rule
by . morocco's hassan ii is just such a king . like le grand charles,
hassan considers himself his country's indispensable man, and he may be
right . like de gaulle he chose the device of a popular referendum when
he decided to adopt a constitution (time, dec . 28) ; his smashing
victory won hassan the rare esteem of his idol in paris . employing
some gaullist firmness, hassan has now fired the three members of his
cabinet who represented the powerful istiqlal party, filled their jobs
with officials stoutly loyal to the throne . since istiqlal was the
party largely responsible for organizing hassan's successful
referendum, there were those who thought hassan was a bit ungrateful .
but istiqlal leaders were pressing for close economic and diplomatic
ties with cairo, based on a common islamic heritage, and demanding that
hassan pursue morocco's claims to spanish sahara, mauritania and part
of algeria's sahara . refusing to salaam to gamal abdel nasser, king
hassan resisted, arguing that the nation's future lies less with the
arab world than with france and europe's common market . he also
opposed the nationalists' agitation on the border claims . said
hassan's closest political confidant, cabinet director ahmed reda
guedira, after the purge : " the king had to get rid of the grains of
sand which always kept the state machinery out of order . . . the
leaders and platforms of the old parties are stale, like empty
eggshells . " it was gaullist rhetoric, and it hinted of still another
gaullist touch . rabat buzzed with rumors that hassan was ready to
organize his own political machine . according to one report, the name
for the new group was already chosen : union for new royalty u.n.r .
they are the same initials as those of charles de gaulle's union for
the new republic .
