italy victory, of sorts, in sicily " attila is at the gates, /
thundered ernesto cardinal ruffini, archbishop of palermo . well, not
exactly . sicily was holding regional elections, and the communists
threatened to repeat the massive gains they had scored in italy's
national elections seven weeks ago . red boss palmiro togliatti himself
was on hand to campaign . back and forth across the island scurried
hundreds of communist squadristi (shock troops), trying to swing
undecided voters . premier-designate aldo moro's christian democrats,
having learned painfully from the april results that it does not pay to
peddle anti-communism softly, waged a tough campaign against "
khrushchev's false smiles . " they could also point to sicily's
significant economic progress under their administration . the
christian democrats' campaign succeeded . the reds, while keeping their
place as the second largest party in sicily (and the nation), picked up
only one new seat in the 90-member regional assembly, for a total of 22
. their share of the ballots inched up to 24.8 per cent , 1 per cent
higher than their local share in april . the free-enterprising liberals
matched their earlier success, more than doubled their representation
(from two seats to five) . the christian democrats gained three
assembly seats for a new total of 37, won almost 980,000 of the
2,300,000 ballots cast, emerged with 42 per cent of the vote, a rise of
more than 3 per cent since april and more than they had ever polled in
sicily . wrote one christian democratic paper jubilantly : " we have
broken the 40 per cent barrier . " his position somewhat strengthened
by the sicily results, moro will now try to put together a new
coalition cabinet based on the alliance between the christian democrats
and the nenni socialists . but even if he can thus continue the "
opening to left, " moro's and italy's troubles will only be beginning .
