southeast asia triplets reunited indonesia, malaya and the
philippines are " triplets " who became separated at birth, who were
placed under the care of different foster parents but who have now come
of age and are trying to rediscover their common origin and shape their
common destiny . " this description of the three malay states was
offered last year by philippine president diosdado macapagal . in
manila last week, the top ministers of the three nations made plans to
bring the triplets together again . the event suggested that, at least
for the time being, cantankerous indonesia is getting to be a more
responsible citizen in the southeast asia neighborhood . the new
grouping would loosely join indonesia and the philippines to tunku
abdul rahman's federation of malaysia (malaya, singapore, north borneo,
sarawak and brunei) to be established aug . 31 . the philippines claim
a part of north borneo as its own but agreed amicably to postpone
settlement of the issue . indonesia's president sukarno, who had
condemned the malaysia federation as an imperialist plot, apparently
realized that since he can't stop it, he might as well try to join it .
most surprising item in the manila agreement was a pledge of mutual
defense against " subversion in any form or manifestation . " this
pledge is aimed not only at communism but also against the sizable
chinese minorities who dominate the industry and trade of southeast
asia . still, any anti-communist step is remarkable for indonesia .
having made this political move more favorable to the west, some
observers expect that sukarno will soon make a move to placate red
china . next step : a july summit conference at manila between
sukarno, abdul rahman and macapagal to set up a permanent consultative
group to be known as maphilindo .
