turkey old habits before his fall in 1960, premier adnan menderes
made a practice of padlocking hostile turkish newspapers, imprisoned
journalists by the hundreds . police once threw a newsboy into jail for
hawking a headline about a minister's resignation . at the time, the
loudest protests came from wispy old opposition leader ismet inonu, who
denounced " those who would seek to establish a coercive regime . " but
now that he is in power himself, premier inonu, 78, shows signs of
falling into menderes' old habits . hauling out a menderes-era law
outlawing any written or spoken word aimed at disturbing " the
established " order, the inonu regime last month jailed kayhan
saglamer, managing editor of istanbul's influential daily, cumhuriyet,
and sadi alkilic, a freelance writer . it turned out that cumhuriyet
had published an article by alkilic entitled " socialism is the only
salvation for turkey " one of a score submitted in the newspaper's
annual essay contest . fortnight ago, dr . adnan benk, respected
professor of philology at istanbul university, and afsar timucin,
editor of the cultural magazine atac, were clapped into prison for
another crime with words . atac had carried benk's translation of parts
of a book that included four quotations from karl marx . prior to
releasing the pair last week on bail, an istanbul judge ignored benk's
argument that the entire book can be read in the istanbul university
library . specifically accused of spreading communist propaganda, the
four defendants, under article 142, could get prison terms of 15 years.
