neuer on sonday perhaps what the england of christine keeler and
stephen ward needs is a touch of old scotland . judging by the archaic
language of the scottish bigamy act (1551), few offenders are more
frowned upon than " thame that maryis twa sindrie wyfis or husbandis
levand togiddir undervorsit (undivorced) . " under the act, punishment
is fixed at " confiscatious of all theair gudis mouabill of their
persounis for yeir and day . " also, they may " neuer habill to bruke
(never again bear) office of honour, dignitie nor benefice . " as it
happens, this harsh treatment has not been meted out for monny a year
lang syne, but the scots' ancient law is still on the books . last
week, along with 166 other cobwebbed statutes adopted by the scottish
kingdom before it joined england in 1707, the law was being repealed in
the british parliament . for all their moral granite, the scots clearly
had their problems 1 statute, designed to curb rebellious youth,
decreed that any " sonne or daughter above age of sextein yeers not
being distracted (demented) shall beate or curse their father or mother
shall be put to death without mercy . " on the other hand, the loss of
some of the old laws might be said, from a dour point of view, to
contribute to modern decadence . among them : repeal of a prohibition
(1579) against " gamyng and playing, passing to tavernis and ailhouses
and wilfull remaning fra (away from) the paroche kirk in tyme of
sermone or prayers on sonday .
