congo under the knife suffering from amoebic dysentery,
fainting spells and an inflamed kidney, moise tshombe, 43, was being
treated last week in the clinique de passy in paris . at the same time,
his once potent and economically healthy domain of katanga was going
under the knife back in the congo . last year the congo central
government cut north katanga out of tshombe's former domain, leaving
him only the southern part . now the government subdivided the area
further, into the provinces of east katanga and lualaba (see map) . the
purpose of the gerrymander is to remove any power base to which tshombe
might return . premier cyrille adoula and other central-government
leaders in leopoldville have been terrified of a renewed secession
attempt in katanga once u.n . troops pull out of the congo . a personal
campaign against tshombe began last may when his bodyguard was forcibly
disbanded . next tshombe's correspondence was seized, with hints that
it gave proof of treasonable designs . the ailing tshombe took the hint
and left for europe, vowing : " i will come back, and i will not
abandon my post . " technically, moise tshombe is still eligible to run
for office in east katanga . but since much of tshombe's political
strength lies with the luanda tribe, now isolated in the new lualaba
province, his chances might be slim . though tshombe still has
considerable popularity in katanga, the europeans there want no more
adventures, and the flourishing union miniere asks only that it be
allowed to mine copper undisturbed and continue earning $260 million a
year for the congo more than twice the export revenue of the rest of
the country . the secessionist spirit seems to be dying . says one of
tshombe's old ministers : " we were puppets protecting european
interests, and now nobody wants to pull our strings . it's all over .
we have no choice but to accept the dictates of leopoldville .
