great britain sex & the class war the profumo scandal was
re-examined last week from the viewpoint of applied political science
and the class war : prime minister harold macmillan candidly admitted
to the daily express that " the young voter is bored with me " and that
the " young ministers i put in a year ago may want to get rid of the
old gentleman at the top . " during the height of the scandal, said
mac, it was " touch and go " for several days on his " chucking it all
in . " added mac : " if it had not been for my wife and loyal staff
here, i don't think i could have got through . but i soon decided that
there was one essential duty to perform . i was determined that no
british government should be brought down by the action of two tarts .
/  in the letters column of the intellectual, leftist new statesman,
christine keeler and marilyn ( " mandy " ) ricedavies were being
analyzed in the somewhat different role as standard bearers of the
proletariat . " here was a section of working-class girls being sold as
instruments to satisfy the sexual needs of the upper class, " wrote
mathematician hyman levy, " while at the same time, there were no
upper-class girls being recruited to satisfy the sexual needs of the
working class . " levy was ironically seconded by teacher m . l . swan
: " with a few fortunate exceptions gamekeepers and other comrades who
have infiltrated the enemy's camp we are prevented by a gigantic class
conspiracy from enjoying the daughters of our rulers and employers . if
the phrase " equality of opportunity' is to be more than a figure of
speech in britain today, this discrimination must go . " aristocrats
already " open their houses to the public at a small charge, " added
swan . if they want to prove their interest in social reform, they need
only consider " a slight extension of the services normally provided .
which led the
new york herald tribune to swiftly headline its story : regime won't
fall, briton says tartly .
