espionage mistaken identities latest installments of two
international spy cases : in london's old bailey, a jury pondered the
crown's case against italian nuclear scientist giuseppe martelli,
including the elaborate espionage equipment found in his possession and
his repeated contacts with known soviet agents . defendant martelli
readily admitted most of the crown's charges, but explained that he had
merely been stringing out the negotiations with the reds in order to
denounce them at the right moment to british authorities . after
deliberating for nine hours and 47 minutes, the jurors decided to
believe martelli and declared him not guilty . in both london and
moscow, there was considerable confusion about the important soviet
official who defected to the west 18 months ago, was thoroughly
interrogated in the u.s., and is now a resident of britain . the man's
name was given as anatoly dolnytsin, and the daily telegraph alertly
noted that a diplomat of the same name had served for nine months in
the soviet embassy in london . moscow's izvestia then got into the act,
insisting that, far from defecting, dolnytsin had left his london post
in 1961 and had been working ever since at the foreign ministry in
moscow (to prove its point, izvestia even published his picture) .
questions raised in britain's house of commons got only an
acknowledgment that somebody did defect from russia 18 months ago and
had been given asylum in britain . possibly, there had been two russian
officials with the same or similar names . now will the real anatoly
dolnytsin please stand up ?
