kenya black & white harambee ! only a few years ago, kenya's
whites raged against jomo kenyatta as the bloodthirsty founder of mau
mau . in 1961, a governor of kenya labeled kenyatta " a leader to
darkness and death . " on a london visit in 1962, kenyatta was pelted
with rotten eggs by white extremists brandishing placards reading, "
hang kenyatta ! " yet last week, as his country's newly elected prime
minister, kenyatta was a hero to most of kenya's remaining white
farmers . at nakuru, capital of the former white highlands, 400 farmers
crowded the town hall to hear him, determined to base their decision to
leave kenya or to stay on what he had to tell them (in the past two
years, 6,000 have left, but 60,000 remain) . kenyatta appealed to the
whites to forgive and forget, to join hands with his three-month-old
african government and prove that different racial groups can live
harmoniously together . " there is no society of angels, black, brown
or white, " said kenyatta . " we are human beings and as such we are
bound to make mistakes . if i have done a mistake to you, it is for you
to forgive me . if you have done a mistake to me, it is for me to
forgive you . " he assured the white settlers that they would be
allowed to farm their land without interference, though the government
will use idle land, and promised more police action to prevent the
stealing of cattle . when he finished, the white farmers roared
kenyatta's battle cry of " harambee ! " , a swahili expression
meaning " let's all push together get up and go . " not all were won
over . but most decided to stay in kenya so long as jomo kenyatta
continued saying and doing the right things . his speech, said farmer
leader lord delamere, was a " unique and historic " event .
