pakistan whose ally ? as u.s . under secretary of state george
ball flew in to rawalpindi last week to express chagrin over pakistan's
budding friendship with red china, he got a quick and bitter taste of
the nation's new mood . no fewer than five chinese communist
delegations including poets, pingpong players and trade officials were
getting the welcome treatment from pakistani officials . gleefully, the
pakistan press trumpeted the words of one visiting chinese bard who
wrote : " you are on the western coast of the sea and we are on the
east . the tidal waves of the ocean roar, and intermingled, we can hear
the sound of our heartbeat . " amid this heady stuff, ball passed the
word to pakistan's president mohammed ayub khan that the u.s . hoped
pakistan would not carry its palsy-walsy campaign with red china too
far . but all ayub and the other pakistanis wanted to talk about was
their preoccupation with increased military aid to india, which they
consider a betrayal by the u.s threat to pakistan's security . behind
pakistan's new stance is growing pressure on ayub by neutralist
pakistani politicians such as 35-year-old foreign minister zulfikar ali
bhutto . emerging from sessions with ayub and bhutto, ball declared
that " we have a better understanding of each other's point of view . "
it was diplomatese for a stubborn deadlock although ayub privately
had made
it clear that he will not sign any military pacts with china and wants
to remain an ally of the west, he passed along word to his american
guest that pakistan is not about to back down on the new air agreement
it had just signed with china . pakistan underscored its attitude
toward peking by announcing an agreement to survey the border between
china's sinkiang region and the pakistani-controlled portion of kashmir
