syria foiled again generally speaking, syria's soldiers are no
great shakes at fighting . but they're a persistent lot when it comes
to overthrowing the government at home . no fewer than ten attempted
coups have taken place in 13 years . one group of officers has plotted
steadily for more than two years . led by colonel abdel karim nahlawi,
39, the military malcontents were in on the coup that severed syria's
union with egypt . last march, they tried to take over the government,
but were packed off as military attaches in syrian embassies abroad .
last week the officers were up to their old tricks again . incensed by
a damascus decree stripping them of their army status, the group
arranged a dramatic rendezvous in turkey, then quietly crossed the
frontier and made for their old barracks inside syria . greeted
joyously by some of their former comrades in arms, nahlawi's men issued
a public demand that their discharges be canceled, and that a new
general staff to their liking be put in power . to confuse things, the
rebellious soldiers insisted on a plebiscite to decide on closer
relations with nasser's egypt . otherwise, nahlawi threatened, troops
under his control would march on damascus . for president nazem
el-koudsi, it was an old familiar tune . coolly, he played for time,
agreed to " consider " the demands if nahlawi would negotiate at army
headquarters . the talks dragged on for three crisis-filled days .
then, koudsi mobilized his own forces, one night suddenly surrounded
the army ghq with armored cars . colonel nahlawi got the point . in
another country, he and his men might have been jailed, or even
executed for treason . but koudsi, who keeps a prepared resignation in
his desk just in case the soldiers should some day win, chose not to
push his luck . escorted aboard an airliner and given $1,000 apiece to
cover their expenses, the rebels were sent back to diplomatic posts in
civvies .
