russia " passengers will please refrain " moscow-bound train no .
7 had just pulled into naushki, the soviet railroad checkpoint on the
mongolian frontier . suddenly, swarms of red chinese students dashed
out of the coaches and into the station, tied themselves with belts to
block the entrances . then, in the words of astounded stationmaster
prokop mikhailov, they " emptied their bowels and bladders on the
floor, in spitoons, and on benches . and the men's room was only a few
steps away . " cause of the messy melee was the discovery of
anti-moscow propaganda in the compartments of the 19-man red chinese
train crew and the 73 students aboard the moscow-peking express . when
four russian border guards and customs officials tried to confiscate
the documents, mobs of red chinese defiantly blocked the aisles .
attempting to fight their way through the crowd, the hapless soviet
officials were pummeled, scratched and bitten ; finally they were
locked into a compartment for five hours . when the russians hastily
assembled a replacement train for the onward journey to moscow, the
peking crew locked the emergency brakes on their own equipment, raised
red signals, and moved cranes to blockade the rails . in the end, the
harried russians were able to force the chinese train and its
rambunctious passengers back over the frontier into mongolia, and with
a sigh of relief, soviet trainmen chugged off toward moscow in the
replacement train . it might well be the last trip in a long time for
the moscow-peking express . the kremlin dashed off a scathing official
protest to peking over the " provocative violation of elementary
sanitary and hygienic standards, " then peremptorily suspended service
on the route until further notice .
