nato the double standard only two days after secretary of state
dean rusk in frankfurt repeated the u.s . pledge to maintain six
divisions in west germany, newspapers reported that the u.s . has "
scheduled the withdrawal " of an armored cavalry regiment from germany
. sooner or later it may indeed be withdrawn but not for the time being
. anyway, the 5,000-man regiment plus five other regiments were rushed
to germany at the height of the berlin crisis in 1961 in order to
reinforce the six u.s . divisions committed to nato . these temporary
reinforcements would all have been brought back after the crisis eased
at a saving of nearly $200 million a year if the pentagon had been
allowed its way . but to placate bonn, the kennedy administration
promised in september that it would not withdraw any troops " without
consultation . " the furor in bonn last week forced president kennedy
to repeat, somewhat wearily, that the six nato divisions plus the six
additional regiments that are not committed to nato would remain on
german soil . the excitement over a single regiment is a symptom of
what washington calls nato's " double standard . " german fears are
understandable, but europeans in general, washington feels, expect the
u.s . to meet its nato commitments as a matter of course, while never
coming near to fulfilling their own obligations in the alliance . as
one u.s . official told reporters last week : " for a long time nato
has been a 20-mule-team wagon, with one mule pulling and the others
sitting in the wagon . it is time for them to get out and pull too . "
