tunisia pals no more one of the most perishable commodities in the
arab world seems to be gratitude . when algeria won independence from
france after seven years of bloody war, its people were deeply indebted
to neighboring tunisia, whose president habib bourguiba, 59, had given
shelter to 200,000 algerian refugees and provided a refuge for the
training and equipment of 18,000 algerian fighting men . but last week,
in a shouting, gesticulating speech in the vast casbah square of tunis,
bourguiba said it was " surprising " to discover that algeria has "
become a residence for criminals and plotters against the government of
tunisia . " he seemed mostly upset by the fact that algeria has refused
to extradite one boubeker mustafi, a tunisian accused of being party to
the christmas assassination plot against bourguiba (time, jan . 4), for
which 13 tunisians have been condemned to death . bourguiba ridiculed
46-year-old algerian premier ahmed ben bella as " an inexperienced,
excited youth, " and " a simple-minded peasant, " but conceded that "
not all members of the algerian government were involved . " in any
case, boasted bourguiba, " we have enough power and strength to face
any adversary . i don't intend to keep up hypocritical relations with
any government . " at week's end bourguiba made his displeasure
official by summoning home tunisia's ambassador to algeria . but there
was no break in diplomatic relations, nor any sign that tunisia's
10,000-man army was preparing to take on algeria's 120,000 veteran
troops .
