south viet nam widow's retreat mme . ngo dinh nhu had
arrived in the u.s . 5f weeks ago as a crusading wife ; last week she
left, an embittered widow . from beverly hills she flew to rome to join
her three younger children, son trac, 15, son quyhn, 11, and daughter
le quyen, 4 . either because of a shortage of funds or a
misunderstanding with california's young republicans, who had
originally invited her to los angeles to speak, mme . nhu departed
owing nearly half of her $2,000 bill at the beverly wilshire hotel (the
manager did not seem worried about collecting) . following her by mail
was a stack of books, among them to live again and tnt : the power
within you ; how to release the forces inside you and get what you
want . at the airport, reading a long farewell statement, she referred
to the fact that the u.s . had encouraged the coup : " judas has sold
the christ for 30 pieces of silver . the ngo brothers have been sold
for a few dollars . " by this mme . nhu meant the aid that the u.s .
had withheld from diem but restored " to those who would not hesitate
to turn their guns against their own duly elected leaders . " she had
heard reports that, after being murdered by south viet nam's new
rulers, " president ngo dinh diem's face was serene in death, and my
husband had a slight smile though his face was all streaked with blood
. i think therefore that i cannot be less serene than they . " in rome
she was welcomed by diem's brother, archbishop ngo dinh thuc, who had
been attending the vatican council ; then she was whisked to a
treeshaded convent for a rest . eventually, mme . nhu insists, she will
return to south viet nam . said she : " my burden will be hard indeed,
for the devil has not been disarmed and is still trying to beat me down
. /
