great britain another tory setback dundee, a dour, slum-ridden
industrial city (pop . 182,900) on scotland's east coast, is famed for
its marmalade and maverick politics . it has sent only two tory m.p.s
to westminster in 131 years, and in 1922 threw out winston churchill,
then a liberal, in favor of the only prohibitionist ever to sit in
parliament . in 1959 the labor party only managed to hang onto dundee
by 714 votes, and so, in last week's by-election, the tories had hopes
that the impact of a new, scottish prime minister might help to defeat
labor . instead, the government suffered another setback . the
progressive conservative candidate, a popular lawyer, lost to his
laborite opponent, a trade-union official, by 4,955 votes, a tory drop
of 8.8 per cent from the last general election . part of the outcome
was caused by purely local issues (example : recent government
proposals to lower protective tariffs on jute, which would jeopardize
an industry that employs 20 per cent of the city's work force), and the
loss was not as sharp as the tories' recent defeat at thriving,
middle-class luton . but the tories were painfully aware that they have
little time to reverse labor's gains before elections, probably next
spring . . . . (tridots) one of the most popular tory leaders,
elfin-faced, effervescent viscount hailsham, last week followed the
example of former lord home, signed away his titles and became the
right honorable quintin hogg . leaving the " political ghetto " of the
house of lords, he will probably be elected to commons from st .
marylebone, a solidly tory, london constituency . " lord hailsham, "
said he, " is dead . god bless quintin hogg . /
