less than a pound " ward is dead, " pleaded barrister jeremy
hutchinson last week . " profumo is disgraced . and now i know your
lordship will resist the temptation to take what i might call society's
pound of flesh . " it was no antonio in the prisoner's dock at the old
bailey, but cool, green-suited christine keeler (130 lbs.), and the
quality of mercy was not strained . noting that she had been " under
pressure, under fear and under domination, " judge sir anthony hawke
sentenced christine to nine months in jail for perjury and conspiracy
to obstruct justice (maximum possible sentence for perjury alone :
seven years) . with her roommate, paula hamilton marshall, and their
housekeeper, darkhaired olive brooker, defendant keeler had pleaded
guilty to framing jamaican jazz singer aloysius ( " lucky " ) gordon, a
jilted lover of christine's ; he was first convicted, on her own sober
testimony, of beating her and later released on the basis of her
drunken tape-recorded confession that she had lied . thus, as she was
led from the half-empty courtroom with tears starting from her eyes,
ended what defense counsel hutchinson probably prematurely termed " the
last chapter in this long saga that has been called the keeler affair .
/ after she has served her sentence,
christine will
presumably return to the $39,000 georgian house she bought recently
from her journalistic earnings . then, said she, " all i want is for
everyone to let me be a normal girl again . /
