russia something for the soil in the kremlin this week, the
soviet communist party's central committee is pondering the grave
crisis in agriculture that has made it virtually impossible for russia
to feed itself . up for debate is nikita khrushchev's sweeping plan for
expansion of the chemical industry to raise fertilizer production from
20 million tons this year to 108 million tons by 1970 . fertilizer has
become a kind of ritual incantation ; nikita is obviously convinced
that only its vastly increased use can raise production enough to avoid
drastic food cuts or permanent dependence on expensive foreign farm
products, such as the 11 million tons of wheat the soviets are buying
from the west . asks a current moscow joke : " what was stalin's last
mistake ? " answer : " he stockpiled enough grain for only ten years
. " major new investments in the chemical industry are sure to force a
cutback in consumer production, housing, possibly defense ; but the
situation on russian farms warrants it . yields this year have been
poor in the ukraine and siberia . last week the administrator for the
virgin lands, khrushchev's pet farm project, openly admitted disaster
in his regions as well, citing staggering examples of mismanagement and
inefficiency . another obvious topic for the moscow party meeting is
the split with red china . even as the russian press was pleading for
calm, peking's delegates to the communist world peace council in warsaw
noisily condemned russia's " peaceful coexistence " policy, including
the nuclear test ban . russian delegates retorted, as new china news
agency put it indignantly, by " banging the desks and uttering catcalls.
