cambodia ghoulish glee thailand's grief over sarit's death was
in stark contrast to the ghoulish glee it provoked in neighboring
cambodia . neutralist prince norodom sihanouk long hated sarit, whom he
labeled a western toady, two years ago broke off diplomatic relations
with thailand in a flurry of epithets . on receiving news of the death,
special concerts were scheduled to celebrate the occasion . prince
sihanouk allowed civil servants to report for work two hours later for
a fortnight so that they could " dance and amuse themselves . " in an
official proclamation, a government broadcast said that " thanks to
divine protection, all cambodia's enemies suffer complete destruction .
ngo dinh diem and ngo dinh nhu were killed by bullets . their friend
sarit, who mistreated cambodia incessantly, met with sudden death .
moreover, the great boss of these aggressors met the same fate . " when
the u.s . officially protested these words, cambodia denied any
derogatory intentions toward president kennedy, but it huffily recalled
its ambassador from washington . at the same time, with consummate gall
a government announcement claimed that the u.s . had taken " too
literally " sihanouk's recent decision against accepting further u.s .
aid ; washington, went the new complaint, immediately stopped all
projects in progress instead of letting the prince decide the cutoff
dates himself . ordering all u.s . military and economic missions out
of the country by jan . 15, sihanouk threatened : " we will be happy
to break off diplomatic relations with the u.s . " the state department
replied by ordering u.s . ambassador philip sprouse back to washington
for " consulations . /
