cambodia     the slumbering prince     former u.s . secretary of state
dean acheson is one of the most highly esteemed americans in
pnom penh . the reason dates back to last year, when acheson
successfully
represented cambodia before the international court of justice in the
hague in a territorial dispute with thailand . last week the u.s .
tried to capitalize on this friendship in an effort to end its acerbic
and somewhat mysterious little quarrel with cambodia's vain,
unpredictable leader, prince norodom sihanouk . the u.s . was rudely
rebuffed . sending acheson out to cambodia on a peacemaking mission
would be fine, declared the prince, but only on three conditions : 1)
that washington apologize for the u.s . diplomat who described as "
barbarous " radio cambodia's tasteless comments on john f . kennedy's
assassination, 2) a formal withdrawal by u.s . diplomats of a question
asking whether the " cambodian government had rejoiced over kennedy's
death, " 3) and the closing down of a radio station that sihanouk
claimed was run by cia in laos or thailand for the purpose of sending
subversive broadcasts into cambodia . washington termed sihanouk's
conditions " totally unacceptable . " in fact, sihanouk is probably
only taunting the u.s . out of fear of the red chinese and wants to
avoid an overt diplomatic break . sihanouk is still anxious for a
geneva conference to guarantee cambodian neutrality, but such a
conference is meaningless without u.s . participation . as sihanouk
himself said last week after closing cambodia's embassy in london, " it
appears necessary, without a diplomatic break, to put our relations in
slumber . /
