the congo bare cupboard awaiting the victorious united nations
at the national bank of katanga in elisabethville were some legitimate
spoils or so it seemed should have been $16.2 million in congolese
francs originally deposited in the bank to support the currency of
moise tshombe's katanga and u.n . officials hoped to turn it over to
the congo
government for reconstruction . but when they got there, tshombe's
cupboard was bare . for weeks, the bank's directors had refused to open
their files and strongrooms to u.n . investigators, and now the reason
for their reluctance was clear . most of the records were gone, and
most of the cash . all the u.n . found was $116.28 in foreign currency
about enough to pay a congolese army sub-lieutenant for ten days . it
was not difficult to guess where the money went . tshombe's own
katangese officials had withdrawn huge sums of money without troubling
to leave receipts . one unnamed official waltzed off with 133 million
katangese francs (worth $2,660,000 at the official exchange rate of 50
to $1) in a single swipe . some 4,000 gold coins valued at $280,000
were smuggled to geneva for sale by a european syndicate . there was
evidence that the bank had transferred 1 billion francs to a branch 150
miles away in ndola, northern rhodesia, to buy arms and pay mercenaries
. with the central government in leopoldville already facing a 1963
deficit of $100 million, the looting of the bank was a sad blow . it
was also bad news to the u.s., which has already resigned itself to
donating another hefty subsidy to the congolese . last week a u.s . aid
team headed by assistant secretary of state harlan cleveland flew into
leopoldville to see what else was needed .
