turkey rain of death in midafternoon in ulus square, in the heart
of ankara, shoppers, office workers and bystanders jammed the streets .
at the railroad station near by, a retired turkish air force general
heard a noise and looked up . the middle east airlines jet-prop
viscount was coming into a low-hanging cloud bank on its way toward a
landing at ankara airport . and then, to his horror, the general saw a
turkish air force c-47 dakota cargo plane lumber into the same cloud
from the opposite direction . in a flash of flame, the two rammed
head-on, dumping flaming wreckage into the crowds in ulus square below
. never in the history of flying has there been such death on the
ground from an airborne accident . at least 62 people on the streets
were killed, and of another 120 hospitalized, ten were not expected to
survive . eight of the dead lost their lives from huge hunks of hot
metal plunging through the roofs of their homes . four people in a taxi
were crushed and killed by falling wreckage . ulus square became an
inferno of flame and choking smoke as fires touched off by a burst gas
main burned out of control for two hours . fire trucks and ambulances
could not get to the scene, slowed to a crawl by the hundreds of
screaming, shoving and panicky people who blocked the narrow streets
leading to the square . all 17 people in the two planes 14, including
five american passengers, aboard the viscount and a crew of three on
the dakota were killed .
