breat britain an l of a driver getting a driver's license in
britain is an l of a job . tyro motorists are forced by law to hang a
learner's " l " on their car, are thus the object of gibes and sneers
from every hot-rodder and truck driver on the road . none of this fazed
margaret hunter, a spinster schoolteacher from cheshire who at 65
finally decided that it was time for her to get her license . thinking
that her next teaching job might be in the country far from public
transport, miss hunter bought a snappy little red fiat, signed on with
a driving school, and hung out her l . after only 40 lessons, she was
ready for a trial spin . but her jolting stops and starts so terrified
her instructor that he got out of the car, remarking : " this is
lunacy ; it's suicide . i'm not going another inch with you . i've had
enough . " undeterred,plucky miss hunter had another go two days later,
sideswiped a five-ton truck and demolished her car . " the garage told
me it's a write-off, " she said sweetly . when miss hunter showed up
for her test, she was tailed by a platoon of reporters and
photographers . climbing into her test car, she stalled seven times, at
last put-putted off at 15 m.p.h., made a quick right turn, nearly
crashing into a van, stalled at a stop street, backed over a sidewalk
while making a turn, sailed through a red light, flicked on her
leftturn indicator at an intersection and then drove straight across,
finally parked at the test center three feet from the curb . so sure
was miss hunter of her innocence that she refused to heed court
summonses to answer for her highway misdeeds . a policewoman finally
had to climb through her apartment window to arrest her . in court last
week, miss hunter declined to enter a plea, said : " i don't think the
question of guilt enters into it . " the court thought otherwise, fined
her a total of $55.44 .
