russia it started with stamps berlin's ugly wall is not the only
barrier that communism's inmates try to breach . soviet authorities are
concerned at the increasing number of soviet youths trying to sneak
illegally out of russia itself . recently two young russians tried to
leave the country by swimming out to a foreign tanker in the black sea
port of batum ; they were picked up by a soviet harbor patrol boat .
one was sentenced to six years in prison, the other to ten . one of the
men, said soviet officials, had been influenced by modern,
western-style poetry " bad verse that had been rejected by all
editorial offices . " izvestia, which occasionally prints revealing
news for its cautionary effect, last week told the story of a defector
named aleksandr ( " sasha " ) mirilenko . sasha was the 18-year-old son
of a ukrainian cultural worker and his teacher wife, both communists .
always daydreaming about life outside russia, sasha started collecting
foreign stamps and writing to collectors in other countries . as his
pen pals began telling him about the good things on the other side of
the iron curtain, sasha's allegiance to the young communist league
began to falter . he went to the black sea resort of yalta, where he
buttonholed foreign tourists for more information and begged for
fountain pens and cigarette lighters . soon sasha was fed up with his
homeland . from his technical school he stole 35 rubles, some stamps,
and a pair of wire-cutters, headed for the frontier between russia and
turkey . he got within a few yards of his goal . one night last
november, as sasha tried to clip his way through the barbed-wire
frontier fence, a flare shot into the sky, alarm bells began to jangle,
and border guards grabbed sasha . moralized izvestia : " this
character, a quite exceptional phenomenon in our country, has become a
renegade, betrayed his friends, parents and country . let him answer
before soviet justice . /
