central africa trouble brewing customs agents and special branch
detectives charged with safeguarding the borders of the sprawling
rhodesian federation have been run ragged lately . in the north, there
is a steady traffic of white mercenaries and african soldiers from the
routed katangese army, who slip across the congo line to peddle their
weapons to eager white and black rhodesians who may one day use them on
each other . in the east, smugglers from the portuguese colony of
mozambique make their way through the wild, mountainous bush to bring
in dagga weed (marijuana) and take out gold stolen by workmen in
rhodesian mines . last week the harried border guards had a new chore
: to prevent the smuggling of hops into southern rhodesia . at
beitbridge, on the limpopo river, a customs officer dutifully searched
the luggage of a vacationer returning from south africa, then
whispered, " man, what does a hop look like ? no one here has ever
seen one ! " the hop crisis results from a $28 duty on every pound of
imported hops imposed by the government of sir roy welensky because tax
revenue from commercial beer has not been up to expectations . " this
is due to the spread of home brewing, " complained the government .
home brewers are generally respectable citizens, ranging from railroad
engineers and civil servants to bank clerks and garage mechanics men
who find commercial beer too extravagant for their budgets . the new
duty would make home brew twice as costly as the commercial stuff .
quickly forming a pressure group grandly named the amateur brewers &
vintners association, some 300 do-it-yourself braumeisters fired off a
protest to welensky, pointing out that home brewing " has taken place
in the united kingdom for centuries, and as the british emigrated to
the colonies, this tradition has been accepted as the birthright of the
ordinary man by every government of the commonwealth .
