the congo vanishing friends into the glass-enclosed winter
garden of his pink palace strode katanga's secessionist moise tshombe
with an important announcement . " i am pleased to have ended my work
and have done my duty, " tshombe told newsmen, and now he would be
leaving for northern rhodesia to take care of a troublesome eye ailment
. how long would he be gone ? " the doctors will decide that, " said
tshombe, but elisabethville hummed with rumors that he was going for
good . moise did nothing to squelch the gossip, for 48 hours after he
left his capital he was on a plane bound for paris . at the rate
tshombe's friends were deserting him, self-exile might not be such a
bad idea . last week 23 of tshombe's top katanga gendarmerie officers
flew into leopoldville for a let's-be-friends dinner of roast chicken
and crepes suzette with leaders of the congolese army, then swore oaths
of allegiance to the central government . even tshombe's erstwhile
african allies were re-examining their relations with leopoldville .
first to bury the hatchet was president fulbert youlou of the congo
republic, formerly the french congo, whose capital city of brazzaville
lies across the river from leopoldville . youlou, a non-practicing
roman catholic priest who stubbornly continues to wear his cassock,
supported tshombe's secession in 1960 . but with tshombe on the way
out, youlou suddenly sailed across the stanley pool to make friends
with the leopoldville crowd . then, looking like a shorter, suntanned
version of sonny liston, he took off on a five-day tour of the country
with leopoldville's president joseph kasavubu . the congolese bore no
grudge . the day youlou left for home, school was canceled in
leopoldville so the children could line his departure route .
