afro-asia mishmash at moshi it was billed as the third
afro-asian people's solidarity conference . but discord turned out to
be solidarity's dominant theme when the 400 delegates and observers
gathered at moshi, a hamlet on the coffee slopes of mount kilimanjaro .
setting the tone of the affair was reluctant host julius nyerere,
president of tanganyika, who had not wanted the meeting held in his
country in the first place . to the communists and their pals, he
warned that africa and asia are imperiled by a " second scramble " of
colonization, led this time by communist powers, " who are committing
the same crime as the capitalists before . " shortly thereafter, the
head of the indian delegation denounced the organization as a " fraud,
/ stomped out of the hall because his neutralist resolution on the
sino-indian dispute was torpedoed . during a debate on malaysia, the
delegate from singapore was barred, and an indonesian was accepted as
brunei's representative . the russians and red chinese delegations
carried their own squabble into africa . there were widespread
suspicions that the chinese were to blame when the amplifier for the
russian translation hookup disappeared, was later found in a ditch
outside the conference hall . tit followed tat . next day the chinese
earphones went dead, and a british engineer summoned to fix them found
that the electrical connection had been spiked .
