east germany the harder they fall east german communists
forever accuse west german chancellor konrad adenauer of harboring
former nazis in his government, but last week, to their acute
embarrassment, a prominent exnazi turned up right among east germany's
top twelve communists . the man was professor dr . karl-heinz bartsch,
39, a brilliant agriculturalist who in scarcely more than a decade
soared from complete obscurity to a spot in walter ulbricht's cabinet .
first gaining prominence with his lectures on animal husbandry at east
berlin's humboldt university, bartsch was given a job controlling
collective farms, soon was made deputy minister of agriculture .
perhaps he did not tell his colleagues of some of his earlier
achievements : a place in the hitlerjugend at nine, hitler's cross of
danzig at 16 (presumably for deeds in poland), a war career in the
notorious ss . western intelligence agencies knew all about bartsch,
however . his name had turned up in the berlin documents center, an
archive of old nazi membership files rescued from the storage heap of a
west german papermill after the war . resisting the temptation to spill
the facts on bartsch, intelligence bided its time . fortnight ago, the
rising herr bartsch became agricultural czar, and at this point out to
west berlin newspapers went full dossiers on the new communist cabinet
minister . for two days the east german government ignored the
headlines . then ulbricht's party control committee met and decided
that bartsch, for causing " serious damage " to the party, would be
dismissed from all his party and government functions . he had been in
office just 36 hours .
