central africa no squawks, please everybody was rushing to leave
sir roy welensky's rickety rhodesia federation . black-ruled nyasaland
was already assured of britain's permission to secede . northern
rhodesia's african-dominated assembly last week voted, 21 to 14, to
demand immediate secession . even whiteruled southern rhodesia was now
calling for " a clean break . " or, as the new prime minister, winston
field, put it at the opening session of parliament in salisbury, " the
question of southern rhodesian secession will not arise . we shall have
been seceded from . " britain's deputy prime minister r . a . ( " rab "
) butler had just spent two weeks in the rhodesias, and concluded that
a breakup of the ten-year-old federation was inevitable . sometime in
the coming spring, butler is expected to call a conference in london to
overhaul the constitu tion of northern rhodesia, and give the region
the right to secede ; he also hoped that he might salvage from the
federation's wreckage some kind of economic link between the two
rhodesias . field's aim is to win independence for southern rhodesia
before britain has a chance to draft a new constitution that would
assure southern rhodesia's 3,616,000 black of majority rule over the
221,000 whites . field wants no squawks from native agitators while he
tries to bring off his plan . this month his police arrested african
nationalist leader joshua nkomo and seven other former leaders of the
banned zimbabwe african people's union for taking part in an " illegal
procession " and " obstructing police " at a protest rally, charges
that could mean up to ten years in prison . with that, field last week
sent parliament a spate of proposals that would give police broad new
search and arrest powers, permit the whipping of prisoners (up to a
maximum of ten lashes), and make hanging mandatory for anyone convicted
of arson or the use of explosives .
