europe the outsiders in a geneva conference room borrowed from
the world meteorological organization, the seven members of the
european free trade association met last week to revive a marriage that
they would much rather have seen dissolved . until charles de gaulle's
rejection of britain's bid for common market membership, most of its
efta partners (sweden, norway, denmark, switzerland, austria, portugal)
had also banked on joining the six . instead, as they ruefully surveyed
the damage, the outer seven seemed farther out than ever . accepting
the fact, efta which was glued together in a defensive reaction to the
common market in 1960 decided last week to speed up its timetable for
internal tariff reduction in hopes of stimulating trade among its
members . the delegates disavowed any intention of starting a trade war
with the six, for after all, the common market was still the biggest
customer for efta exports . " we still regard the seven as a sensible
contribution to european unity, " declared efta secretary general frank
figgures . with the sole exception of austria, which announced that it
will continue to press for associate membership in the common market,
all of britain's outer seven partners have now suspended their
applications to join the six, agree meanwhile that any move to link the
two communities will have to come from brussels . few thought it would
come soon .
