west germany tanks, but no tanks among the many high-sounding
but vague provisions sprinkled through the franco-german reconciliation
treaty ceremonially signed in paris six weeks ago was one calling for
joint research and development of conventional weapons . this seemed a
promising clause, for experts from both nations already had spent years
working together on various projects e.g., antitank rockets developed
at the french ballistic proving grounds at st.louis, a big military
transport plane designed to operate off short runways, a
french-designed heavy helicopter . but the most important joint project
in the works was the europa panzer, a medium tank ; when first
conceived, the idea was that it would replace the west german
bundeswehr's 2,000 out-of-date u.s . m-47s and m-48s, give the french
army a fast, quick-firing, maneuverable weapon . but there were snags
in the europa panzer scheme . the germans, sold on the idea of a safer,
cheaper multifuel engine, which works best on diesel oil, sniffed at
the french motor design . and bonn defense chiefs preferred a
fast-firing british 105-mm . cannon that did not fit the chassis the
french were talking about . last week bonn's new defense minister
kai-uwe von hassel officially scrapped the europa panzer idea, declared
that west germany would produce a flashy new tank of its own . french
defense officials had gotten word of the decision long before their
charles de gaulle had signed his new pact with bonn . but the canceled
deal was bound to set minds on both sides of the rhine wondering just
how useful their treaty really was .
