great britain rule phillitannia when the bank of england issued
a newly designed p 5 note last week, tradition-minded englishmen were
horrified to find that the 1963 model britannia looks more like miss
blackpool than the dumpy dowager who has traditionally ruled the waves
from the nation's coins and bank notes . stripped of her  roman helmet
and a good deal of her heft, the pert new britannia has a becoming
shoulder-length hairdo to replace the sausage curls she has worn since
victorian times, even sports a toga that looks as if it had been
designed by emilio pucci rather than the emperor hadrian . a spokesman
for the old lady of threadneedle street groped for the right words to
express the bank's official comment, came up with, " she's a glamour
puss . we are really with it . " model for the new britannia was
phillida stone, an 18-year-old art student at oxford whose father,
artist reynolds stone, was commissioned to design the new mauve, brown
and blue fiver (worth $14) . at a loss for a model, her father draped
phillida in a sheet, sat his daughter down with a stick in one hand to
represent britannia's spear . her traditional olive branch was sketched
in later . some found the new design an agreeable change from the buxom
figure on most other money . other britons thought phillitannia "
clumsily designed, " / like snow white " and " too much like a bathing
beauty . " even phillida who might have been expected to welcome her
newfound fame objected to her father's drawing . " it's not, /
she pouted, " the real me . /
