russia back to siberia, comrades soviet scientists have not yet
taught shrimps to whistle, but radio moscow last week reported an even
more fantastic feat . geologists in northern siberia, it recounted
breathlessly, dug up a pair of salamanders that had been frozen for
5,000 years, thawed them out and fed them berries and mosquitoes from
their hands . one of the prehistoric newts (tritons) scampered happily
about for three weeks before it died ; it was then bottled and sent to
a moscow university laboratory . its comrade lived for several months
in a museum . radio moscow, which said the tale of two tritons was
based on an account in a soviet literary magazine, even suggested that
the discovery might have momentous implications for space flight . if
newts could survive all that time, why not deepfreeze soviet cosmonauts
and thus eliminate the need for food during their long voyages through
the universe ? radio moscow's story blew up a storm of cables and
telephone calls from western newsmen panting after all the newty
details . and, though u.s . scientists soon pooh-poohed the salamander
saga, it made the front pages of most u.s . newspapers, which since
sputnik i have tended to overplay far-out soviet scientific claims .
then a russian scientist debunked the story . professor gleb
lozino-lozinsky, head of the space biology laboratory at the leningrad
institute of cytology, disclosed that it had been lifted from a
children's book, and " has nothing to do with science . " snapped he :
/ the author of this tale should be punished . " from radio moscow :
siberian silence .
